# Fluentd v0.12 is Released

We are pleased to announce that we have released Fluentd v0.12 today.
v0.12 introduces nice features and improves internal structures (in anticipation for v1).

RubyGems: [fluentd 0.12.0](https://rubygems.org/gems/fluentd/versions/0.12.0)

## New Features

### Configuration

`--use-v1-config` is used by default, which means that the user can use JSON arrays/hashes and embedded Ruby code natively. See [the docs](http://docs.fluentd.org/articles/config-file#v1-format) for further details.

In addition, we introduced the `@` prefix for system parameter or label symbols to avoid conflicts with plugin parameters.

* `@type` specifies plugin type
* `@id` specifies plugin id. `in_monitor_agent` uses this value for `plugin_id` field.
* `@label` specifies label. See the `Label` section below.

`type` and `id` are still valid to ensure backward compatibility.

### A Small Syntactical Incompatibility

v1 config has one incompatibility problem: if the value of a parameter starts with the characters '{' or '[', it is now interpreted as JSON. To keep using the existing config, the parameter value must be explicitly quoted. Check ["Multi line support for array and hash values"](http://docs.fluentd.org/articles/config-file#multi-line-support-for-array-and-hash-values) for further details.

### Filter

v0.12 introduces filter plugins to process event streams. With filter plugins, the old trick of "using output plugins as filter" is no longer needed.

Seeing is believing:

```aconf
<filter pattern1>
  @type filter_foo
  # ...
</filter>
<filter pattern2>
  @type filter_bar
  # ...
</filter>
```

Fluentd tries to apply a filter chain to event streams.
If a tag is matched with `pattern1` and `pattern2`, Fluentd applies `filter_foo` and `filter_bar` top-to-bottom (`filter_foo` followed by `filter_bar`).
See [this v0.12 configuration](https://github.com/fluent/fluentd/blob/master/example/v0_12_filter.conf) as a detailed example.

v0.12 ships with `grep` and `record_transformer` plugins.

* grep

The `grep` filter is a filter version of [fluent-plugin-grep](https://github.com/sonots/fluent-plugin-grep) of output plugin.
The configuration example is below:

```aconf
<filter foo.**>
  @type grep
  regexp1 message INFO
</filter>
```

If the value of the "message" field doesn't match "INFO", such events are removed from event stream.
`grep` filter doesn't support the old `input_key` and `regexp` pair.

* record_transformer

The `record_transformer` filter is a filter version of [fluent-plugin-record-reformer](https://github.com/sonots/fluent-plugin-record-reformer) output plugin.

```aconf
<filter bar.**>
  @type record_transformer
  <record>
    hostname ${hostname}
  </record>
</filter>
```

Filters don't allow tag rewriting. So, unlike `record_reformer`, `record_transformer` doesn't have tag-related parameters.

### Label

Label is useful for grouping Filter and Output Plugins. Labels simplify event stream routing and reduces the complexity of configuration files.

Again, seeing is believing:

```aconf
# The events coming from this source are routed to the file <match>.
<source>
  @type forward
  port 24224
</source>

# The events from this source are routed to s3 <match> in <label @STAGING>
<source>
  @type forward
  @label @STAGING
  port 24225
</source>

<match forward.**>
  @type file
  # ...
</match>

# Label symbol should have `@` prefix bacause it is not a pattern.
<label @STAGING>
  <match forward.**>
    @type s3
    # ...
  </match>
</label>
```

### At-Least-Once Semantics in Forward Plugins

Fluentd now supports at-least-once semantics between `in_forward` and `out_forward`.
If you set `require_ack_response` parameter in `out_forward` plugin,
`out_forward` waits ack response from `in_forward`.

```aconf
<match forward.**>
  @type forward
  # ...
  require_ack_response true
  ack_response_timeout 60s # default is 190s
  <server>
    # ...
  </server>
</match>
```

## Give it a Whirl

We tested v0.12 in some high-load environments without issues. That said, if you run into trouble with v0.12 in your environment, please [file an issue](https://github.com/fluent/fluentd/issues) on GitHub.

In addition, we are now updating Fluentd document for v0.12. More detailed information, e.g. how to write filter plugins, will be available soon!

Enjoy Fluentd!

TAG: Fluentd Announcement
AUTHOR: masa
