# Fluentd v0.12.29 has been released

Hi users!

We have released Fluentd version 0.12.29.
Here are the changes:

### New features / Enhancement

* in\_tail: Add `from_encoding` parameter: [#1067](https://github.com/fluent/fluentd/pull/1067)
* filter: Port `parser` filter to v0.12: [#1203](https://github.com/fluent/fluentd/pull/1203)
* config: New `config_param` options to specify deprecated/obsoleted parameters: [#1186](https://github.com/fluent/fluentd/pull/1186)

### Bug fixes

* config: fix to raise `ConfigError` for type missing, and its tests: [#1202](https://github.com/fluent/fluentd/pull/1202)
* filter\_record\_transformer: Fix to prevent overwriting reserved placeholder keys such as tag: [#1176](https://github.com/fluent/fluentd/pull/1176)

## Port `parser` filter

`parser` filter of `fluent-plugin-parser` is for parsing one field of event record and updates event record itself with parsed result. This is useful for some use cases, e.g. docker logging driver, lazy log parsing at aggregator and etc.

Now, these use cases are popular and many users install `fluent-plugin-parser` on their environment. So we decided to port `parser` filter into core plugins to reduce extra setup cost.

Here is a configuration example for Docker logging driver:

```aconf
<filter docker.**>
  @type parser
  key_name log
  format json
  reserve_data true
</filter>
```

## config: New `config_param` options to specify deprecated/obsoleted parameters

This is for plugin developers. Sometimes we want to deprecate plugin parameters, e.g. replace internal implementation with new library, add more useful parameter, etc. For such cases, we introduced new 2 options to `config_param`.

- `deprecated`: fluentd shows `warn` message for `deprecated` parameter. A plugin should work with `deprecated`.
- `obsoleted`: fluentd raises `ConfigError` for `obsoleted` parameter.

These options accept `string` value as a message. Here is code example:

```ruby
config_param :param1, :integer, default: 10, deprecated: "User new_param1 instead"
config_param :param2, :string, default: nil, obsoleted: "Use new_param2 instead"
```

Here is log example:

```
2016-09-07 15:50:16 +0900 [warn]: 'param1' parameter is deprecated: Use new_param1 instead
2016-09-07 15:50:16 +0900 [error]: config error file="test.conf" error="'param2' parameter is already removed: Use new_param2 instead"
```

If you want to remove existing parameter, use following step:

- Add `deprecated` to parameter and release new version
- Release several minor versions
- Add `obosoleted` to parameter and release new version
- Release new major version and remove parameter


<br />
Lastly, v0.12.29 docker image has also been [available on Docker Hub](https://hub.docker.com/r/fluent/fluentd/tags).

<br />
Happy logging!


TAG: Fluentd Announcement
AUTHOR: masa
