# Fluentd v0.14.9 has been released

Hi users!

We have just shipped Fluentd v0.14.9 including built-in plugin migration and bug fixes.

Here are major changes ([full ChangeLog is available here](https://github.com/fluent/fluentd/blob/master/CHANGELOG.md)):

We say again, fluentd v0.14 is still development version.
If you try to use v0.14, check your configuration and plugins carefully.

### Migrate several plugins to v0.14 API

We continue to migrate built-in plugins to v0.14 API. Here are migrated plugins in this release:

- in\_http
- in\_forward
- out\_forward
- out\_file
- out\_exec
- out\_exec\_filter

We describe important changes of these plugins.

#### in_http

We removed un-documented detach process feature from `in_http` because `DetachMultiProcessMixin` module is deprecated in v0.14. If you set detach process related parameters in your configuration, it is ignored.

#### out_forward

Since this version, `time_as_integer` parameter is now `false`. It means v0.14.9's `out_forward` can't forward data to v0.12's `in_forward` by default. You need to set `time_as_integer true` explicitly.
We have already mentioned this point in [v0.14.0 release](http://www.fluentd.org/blog/fluentd-v0.14.0-has-been-released), so we hope this change doesn't break your v0.14 to v0.12 forwarding.

#### out_file

v0.14 Plugin API provides placeholder feature. You can emulate `fluent-plugin-forest` by more flexible way. Here is configuration example:

    <match mydata>
      @type file
      path /path/to/${key}
      <buffer time,key>
        flush_at_shutdown true
      </buffer>
      <format>
        @type json
      </format>
    </match>

`${key}` refers the `key` field of event record. If you pass `{"key":"foo"}` record, actual output file becomes `/path/to/foo`. The important point is if you want to refer time, tag or record keys on `path`, you need to list keys in `<buffer CHUNK_KEYS>` (See also [v0.14 Plugin API slide](http://www.slideshare.net/tagomoris/fluentd-v014-plugin-api-details/31)). Here are several examples:

    # Popular time, tag and key case
    <match mydata>
      @type file
      path /path/to/%Y/%m/%d/${tag}/${key} # path is /path/to/2016/11/15/mydata/foo_0.log
      <buffer time,tag,key>
        flush_at_shutdown true
      </buffer>
      # ...
    </match>

    # Of course, you can use more keys
    <match mydata>
      @type file
      path /path/to/${key1}/${key2}/{key3} # If record is {"key1":"foo","key2":"bar","key3":"baz"}, path is /path/to/foo/bar/baz.20161115_0.log
      <buffer time,key1,key2,key3>
        flush_at_shutdown true
      </buffer>
      # ...
    </match>

`out_file` plugin requires `time` in `CHUNK_KEYS` because its placeholder is used in `path` implicitly.

We have a plan to migrate other 3rd party plugins to v0.14, e.g `s3`, `kafka` and more. We can say "Goodbye fluent-plugin-forest!" in near future.

### Port Parser filter plugin

`fluent-plugin-parser` plugin is widely used in the world, so we decided to port this plugin into the core.

Note that we changed invalid event handling. `fluent-plugin-parser` logs warning when log is invalid. On the other hand, built-in `parser` filter emits invalid events to built-in `@ERROR` label. In this result, you can process invalid events using other plugins.

    <source>
      @type forward
    </source>

    <filter app.**>
      @type parser
      key_name log
      <parse>
        @type json
      </parse>
    </filter>

    # If log field is json, record comes here
    <match app.**>
      @type stdout
    </match>
    
    <label @ERROR>
      # If log field is not json, record comes here. Store such events into local file.
      <match app.**>
        @type file
        # ...
      </match>
    </label>

### record_transformer filter: Change default behaviours 

`record_transformer` changes and removes old behaviours.

* `auto_typecast` is now `true`. It means the result of `${10 - 2}` or `${record["int_field"]}` is integer, not string, by default.
* Remove ${tags} placeholder. Use `tag_parts` instead.

We also have a plan to remove `${key}` placeholder in the next version. Use `${record["key"]}` instead.

### Major bug fixes

* fluent-cat: Fix fluent-cat command to send sub-second precision time [#1277](https://github.com/fluent/fluentd/issues/1277)
* out\_forward: fix not to raise error when out\_forward is initialized as secondary [#1313](https://github.com/fluent/fluentd/pull/1313)

Enjoy logging!


TAG: Fluentd Announcement
AUTHOR: masa
