# Fluentd v0.14.2 has been released

Hi users,

After a month and 10 days from release of 0.14.1, we have been released Fluentd version 0.14.2. That version includes many feature updates and bug fixes, which solves many problems reported for 0.14.1. Thank you reporters!
However, Fluentd 0.14.2 is not stable version yet. We have some known issues, mainly for Windows environment, and some features to be added in stable Fluentd major version. These will be added in 0.14.3.

Anyway, 0.14.2 has many good things for Fluentd 0.14 users. Please try it!

Here are major changes ([full ChangeLog is available here](https://github.com/fluent/fluentd/blob/master/CHANGELOG.md)):

### Core: Splitting events into some chunks

Fluentd 0.12 (, 0.14.0 and 0.14.1) stores all events in a bunch are stored in a buffer chunk, even if its bunch bytesize is bigger than `buffer_chunk_limit`. In such cases, `buffer_chunk_limit` is ignored. This is typically seen when Fluentd log forwarder's `buffer_chunk_limit` is larger than one of log aggregator node.
This behavior may generate many larger buffer chunks than the size output plugin expects, and it may cause any unexpected troubles.

Fluentd 0.14.2 splits such large bunch of events into buffer chunks, according to configured `chunk_limit_size`. There will be no more chunks larger than our expectation with this improvement, but splitting events into chunks requires a bit additional CPU time. Roughly speaking, splitting chunks consumes 45% more CPU time in worst case (see [benchmark result](https://github.com/fluent/fluentd/pull/1062#issuecomment-238312636)).

The way to avoid this is to configure `chunk_limit_size` (or `buffer_chunk_limit`) with the same value in all Fluentd processes, or use smaller configuration value in forwarder processes (using `forward` output plugin) than aggregator processes (using `forward` input plugin).

### Core: compat_parameters plugin helper now supports parsers and filters

This is the last missing peace to support v0.12 style configurations in v0.14 API plugins. This plugin helper converts traditional style configurations (such like one using `format` parameter in `<source>` or `<match>` sections directly) into v0.14 style configuration (using `<parse> @type ... </parse>` or `<format> @type ... </format>`). [#1079](https://github.com/fluent/fluentd/pull/1079)

### Core: New RPC call to do both of flushing buffers and shutdown

A new RPC call `/api/processes.flushBuffersAndKillWorkers` was added to flush buffers and then shutdown Fluentd process. [#1134](https://github.com/fluent/fluentd/pull/1134)

### parser_csv: New option to specify delimiter

`parser_csv` is a parser plugin to parse CSV... it was originally "Comma-Separated Values" in good old days, but now it is "Character-Separated Values". The newly added option `delimiter` is to allow users to specify a delimiter (column separator) for various use cases. [#1108](https://github.com/fluent/fluentd/pull/1108)

### in_syslog: New option to receive longer syslog messages

`in_syslog` has `message_length_limit` option now (default is 2048). It's useful for syslog users who transfers web access logs or other large log messages via syslog protocol. [#1127](https://github.com/fluent/fluentd/pull/1127)

### Major bug fixes

* fix a bug to read non-buffer-chunk files as buffer chunks, and Fluentd process crashes [#1098](https://github.com/fluent/fluentd/issues/1098) [#1124](https://github.com/fluent/fluentd/pull/1124)
* fix a bug not to load Filter plugins (even if configuration has `<filter>` sections) [#1118](https://github.com/fluent/fluentd/pull/1118)

Enjoy logging!

TAG: Fluentd Announcement
AUTHOR: moris
