# Fluentd v0.14.20 has been released

Hi users!

We have released v0.14.20. Here are the changes ([full ChangeLog is available here](https://github.com/fluent/fluentd/blob/master/ChangeLog)):
This release is mainly for bug fixes and new plugin helper.

We say again, fluentd v0.14 is still development version. We need your feedback!
If you try v0.14, check your configuration and plugins carefully.

### record_accessor helper: New plugin helper for nested record access

We introduce new `record_accessor` helper. This provides unified nested record access mechanism for plugins.
Some plugins don't support nested record access and it makes the configuration complicated.
`record_accessor` helper mitigates this problem.

Here is an example of grep filter plugin with `record_accessor`:

```
<filter pattern>
  @type grep
  <regexp>
    key $.event.level # Access record["event"]["level"] field, not record["$.event.level"]
    pattern WARN
  </regexp>
</filter>
```

`record_accessor` supports two jsonpath like syntax:

- dot notation: `$.` started parameter. Chain fields by `.`

Simple syntax: `$.event.level` for `record["event"]["level"]`, `$.key1[0].key2` for `record["key1"][0]["key2"]`

- bracket notation: `$[` started parameter. Chain fields by `[]`

Useful for special characters, `.`, ` ` and etc: `$["dot.key"][0]["space key"]` for `record["dot.key"][0]["space key"]`

If you set non `$.` or `$[` started value, e.g. `key log`, it is same as `record["log"]`. So using `record_accessor` doesn't break existing plugin behaviour.

To plugin developers, this is code example of plugin:

```rb
require 'fluent/plugin/filter'

module Fluent::Plugin
  class FooFilter < Filter
    Fluent::Plugin.register_filter('foo', self)

    # 1. load record_accessor helper
    helpers :record_accessor

    def configure(conf)
      # 2. Call `record_accessor_create` to create accessor object.
      # Actually, "$.key1.key2" comes from the configuration
      @accessor = record_accessor_create("$.key1.key2")
    end

    def filter(tag, time, record)
      # 3. Call `call` method
      value = @accessor.call(record)  # Get record["key1"]["key2"] field value

      # ...
    end
  end
end
```

Currently, `filter_grep` supports `record_accessor`. We will add `record_accessor` support to other plugins.

### Fluentd log configuration: Add <log> in <system> directive

We sometimes got the request "We want fluentd's log as json format like Docker. json is easy to parse."
This is good idea, so we add `<log>` directive to under `<system>` directive.

```
<system>
  <log>
    # text or json. default is text
    format json
    # Change format of log time. This affects both text and json.
    time_format FT%T%:z
  </log>
</system>
```

Here are log example:

- text

```
2017-07-27 07:37:02 +0900 [info]: #0 fluentd worker is now running worker=0
```

- json

```
{"time":"2017-07-27 06:44:54 +0900","level":"info","message":"fluentd worker is now running worker=0","worker_id":0}
```

### Major bug fixes

* buf_file: Improve file handling to mitigate broken meta file

We got a bug report about broken meta file with `buf_file`. v0.14.20 includes the patch for this problem.
We need the feedback the problem still happens or not.

* process: Send signal to all workers

Before, Supervisor sends a signal to latest one on multiple process environment. Supervisor now sends a signal to all workers. 


Enjoy logging!


TAG: Fluentd Announcement
AUTHOR: masa
