# Fluentd v0.14.22 has been released

Hi users!

We have released v0.14.22 and v0.14.22 is a stable release of v0.14 series. New v0.14 APIs and features are now fixed.
Try v0.14 with your workload!

For plugin developers. If you are interested in v0.14 API support,
check plugin development articles:

- [Plugin development](https://docs.fluentd.org/v0.14/categories/plugin-development)
- [Plugin APIs](https://docs.fluentd.org/v0.14/categories/plugin-apis)

Here are the changes of v0.14.22 including v0.14.22 ([full ChangeLog is available here](https://github.com/fluent/fluentd/blob/master/CHANGELOG.md))

### Output: record_accessor's dot notation support in chunk keys

You can now access nested field in the event record. Following example uses `record["nest"]["key"]` for chunk keys.

```
<match pattern>
  @type foo
  <buffer tag,$.nest.key>
    # ...
  </buffer>
  param test-param-${tag}-${$.nest.key} # of course, $.nest.key is available as a placeholder
</filter>
```

### Output: `chunk_id` placeholder support

This is useful for `out_file` like plugins. For example, you can use `chunk_id` in the `secondary` to identify failed chunk.

```
<match pattern>
  @type foo
  # ...
  <secondary>
    @type secondary_file
    directory /tmp/fluentd
    basename failed-${chunk_id}
    # ...
  </secondary>
</filter>
```

### in\_tail: Check pos\_file duplication

Output plugin checks buffer's `path` duplicatin to avoid broken buffer files.
Since v0.14.22, `in_tail` also checks `pos_file` duplication to avoid broken pos file.
If you share `pos_file` between `in_tail` settings, fluentd raises an error at start up.

### Major bug fixes

* buffer: Fix deadlock between flush and enqueue threads

We got a bug report about output plugin deadlock with several plugins.<br />
@abicky fixed this bug and several users tested the patch on their environment.<br />
Many thanks for working on this issue. 

* TLS: Improve generated certificates' conformance to X.509 specification

Patch from @mpeltonen. Thanks!<br />
This fixes the TLS communication issue between fluentd and fluent-bit.<br />

We now focus on stability improvement for v1.0.
If you have a question about v0.14, post it on mailing list.

Enjoy logging!


TAG: Fluentd Announcement
AUTHOR: masa
