# Fluentd v0.14.12 has been released

Hi users!

After the release of Fluentd v0.14.10, we did 2 releases, v0.14.11 at the end of 2016, and v0.14.12 today.
Fluentd v0.14.11 release was a kind of quick fix for major bug. And now, we're very happy to introduce three major new feature with Fluentd v0.14.12!

Here are major changes ([full ChangeLog is available here](https://github.com/fluent/fluentd/blob/master/ChangeLog)):

We say again, fluentd v0.14 is still development version. Newly added features are under experimental... we need your feedback seriously!
If you try to use v0.14, check your configuration and plugins carefully.

### Root directory, and no more "path" parameters in buffer configuration

With past versions of Fluentd, file buffer plugin requires `path` parameter to store buffer chunks in local file systems. These paths should be configured not to use same directories carefully.

    <match log.service>
      @id   forward_a
      @type forward
      <buffer>
        @type file
        path  /path/of/buffer/for/service
        flush_interval 1s
      </buffer>
      <server>
        # ...
      </server>
    </match>
    <match log.system>
      @id   forward_b
      @type forward
      <buffer>
        @type file
        path  /path/of/buffer/for/systems
        flush_interval 1s
      </buffer>
      <server>
        # ...
      </server>
    </match>

With Fluentd v0.14.12, these paths can be configured automatically, using `root_dir` option in `<system>` directive.

    <system>
      root_dir /path/fluentd/root
    </system>
    <label @traffic>
      <match log.service>
        @id   forward_a
        @type forward
        <buffer>
          @type file
          flush_interval 1s
        </buffer>
        <server>
          # ...
        </server>
      </match>
      <match log.system>
        @id   forward_b
        @type forward
        <buffer>
          @type file
          flush_interval 1s
        </buffer>
        <server>
          # ...
        </server>
      </match>
    </label>

There are no need to configure `path` in `<buffer>` sections when `root_dir` is configured and all plugins are configured with `@id` parameter. All buffer chunks (and storage plugin files) will be stored under `/path/fluentd/root/worker0/plugin_id`. Don't miss to monitor the disk usage of that partition!

### Multi process workers

Fluentd v0.14.12 supports multi process workers, finally! With this feature, two or more Fluentd workers will be launched, using the same number of CPU cores.
This feature can replace [fluent-plugin-multiprocess](https://github.com/fluent/fluent-plugin-multiprocess), with very simple configuration, to process huge traffic on multi CPU servers.

Note: There are a requirement: **All configured plugin must support multi process workers feature**.

    <system>
      workers 8                    # also can be specified by `--workers` command line option
      root_dir /path/fluentd/root  # strongly recommended to specify this
    </system>
    <source>
      @id    input_from_edge
      @type  forward
      @label @aggr_traffic
      port 24224
    </source>
    <label @aggr_traffic>
      <match **>
        @id   output_to_backend
        @type forward
        <buffer>
          @type file
          flush_interval 1s
          chunk_limit_size 8m
          total_limit_size 64g  # limit per plugin instance, per worker (== 64GB * 8 in total max)
        </buffer>
        <server>
          # ...
        </server>
      </match>
    </label>

Eight worker (and a supervisor) processes work like below:

* Fluentd launches 8 worker processes in the startup sequence
* Supervisor process listens `port 24224`
* When TCP connection requests arrived from client, supervisor delegates `accept` to a worker of workers (server plugin helper does it)
* A worker accepts the connection and process inbound traffic from that socket

All worker processes have the set of plugins, routing and buffers (under `root_dir/workerN` if `root_dir` is configured), and work in parallel completely.
Each workers consumes memory and disk spaces - you should take care to configure buffer spaces, and to monitor memory/disk consumption.

This feature is highly experimental. We need many feedbacks, including bug reports, performance graphs, resource consumption summary and more.

#### Making plugins available with multi process workers

Once again, multi process workers configuration requires all configured plugins support multi process worker feature. It means:

* Plugin MUST be implemented with v0.14 API natively
  * Plugin class is a direct subclass of `Fluent::Plugin::Input`, `Fluent::Plugin::Output`, `Fluent::Plugin::Filters`, etc
* Plugin MUST have `#multi_workers_ready?` method and return `true`
  * The default return value of this method is `true` in filter/buffer/parser/formatter/storage plugins
  * But it's `false` in input/output plugins
  * 3rd party plugins SHOULD re-implemnet `#multi_workers_ready?` to return `true` to support multi process workers
* Plugin MUST NOT use raw sockets to listen network ports
  * It makes `Errno::ADDRINUSE` errors with multi process worker configurations
  * Use server plugin helper to create networks servers to listen network port via the supervisor process

Almost all built-in plugins support multi process workers, but `in_tail` doesn't support it. If `in_tail` is configured with `workers`, Fluentd will fail to start.
This disadvantage will be solved in future versions ([see also](https://github.com/fluent/fluentd/issues/1392)).

### TLS encrypted communication support

There has been many requests to support secure network transportation between Fluentd nodes, for the cases of communication between data centers.
Some users had used 3rd party [fluent-plugin-secure-forward](https://github.com/tagomoris/fluent-plugin-secure-forward) plugin... But finally, Fluentd core supports it!

Here's a configuration example to use server certificates for server nodes (input side), and to share it in client side (output side) too:

    ##### output side
    <match secret.log>
      @id   datacenter_a_output
      @type forward
      
      transport tls
      tls_cert_path /etc/mysecret/cert.pem # server certification file of destination node
                                           # or private CA, or ...
      
      ### tls_cert_path can be specified with 2 or more paths
      # tls_cert_path /etc/mysecret/cert1.pem, /etc/mysecret/cert2.pem
      
      ### There are some options for detailed configuration....
      # tls_version              TLSv1_2  # TLS v1.2 (or TLSv1_1)
      # tls_insecure_mode          false  # skip all certificate checks if true
      # tls_allow_self_signed_cert false
      # tls_verify_hostname         true  # verify FQDN in certificates, with SNI
      
      <server>
        host dest1.myhost.example.com
        port 24228
      </server>
      <server>
        # or, use host(ip address) & name(hostname to verify with cert)
        host 203.0.113.103
        name dest2.myhost.example.com
        port 24228
      </server>
    </match>
    
    ##### input side
    <source>
      @id   datacenter_b_input
      @type forward
      port 24228
      
      <transport tls>
        # version TLSv1_2
        cert_path              /etc/mysecret/cert1
        private_key_path       /etc/mysecret/server.key.pem
        private_key_passphrase my_secret_passphrase_for_key
      </transport>
    </source>

If your server certificate requires intermediate CA certificates to be verified, concat these certs to make chained certs (just like nginx) and specify it in `cert_path`.

There are some patterns to configure `forward` input plugin with TLS. All parameters for input plugin (server side) below should be specified in `<transport tls>` section.

* Server certificates signed by public CA
  * specify `cert_path`, `private_key_path` and `private_key_passphrase` in server side
  * just specify `transport tls` in clien side (if your system's cert store has valid root CA certs)
* Server certificates signed by private CA
  * specify `cert_path`, `private_key_path` and `private_key_passphrase` in server side
  * specify `transport tls` and `tls_cert_path` in cliden side
* Server certificates signed by self
  * specify `cert_path`, `private_key_path` and `private_key_passphrase` in server side
  * specify `transport tls`, `tls_cert_path` and `tls_allow_self_signed_cert true` in cliden side
* Automatically generated server certificates using private CA certs and keys
  * specify `ca_cert_path`, `ca_private_key_path` and `ca_private_key_passphrase` in server side
  * specify options for cert generation (described below) if needed in server side
  * specify `tls_cert_path` to specify private CA cert in client side
* Automatically generated server certificate signed by self (THIS IS ONLY FOR TESTING)
  * specify `insecure true`, and options for cert generation (if needed) in server side
  * specify `tls_insecure_mode true` in client side

Options for cert generation:
* `generate_private_key_length` (default: `2048`)
* `generate_cert_country` (default: 'US')
* `generate_cert_state` (default: 'CA')
* `generate_cert_locality` (default: 'Mountain View')
* `generate_cert_common_name` (default: hostname of the node)
* `generate_cert_expiration` (default: `3650d`)
* `generate_cert_digest` (default: 'sha256')

This feature is highly experimental. Try this in your development/evaluation environment, and send us feedbacks!

#### Compatibility between this feature and fluent-plugin-secure-forward

This TLS support feature is almost same with the one of [fluent-plugin-secure-forward](https://github.com/tagomoris/fluent-plugin-secure-forward). Fluentd forward plugins already have authentication feature, [introduced at v0.14.5](http://www.fluentd.org/blog/fluentd-v0.14.5-has-been-released), which is comptible with secure-forward plugins. Now, we have TLS support, so 100% compatible with secure-forward plugin about these protocols.

* `secure_forward` output plugin + `forward` input plugin (w/ TLS, auth):
  * configure `secure_forward` output plugin as usual
  * configure `forward` input plugin using `<transport tls>` and `<secure>` sections
* `forward` output plugin (w/ TLS, auth) + `secure_forward` input plugin:
  * configure `forward` output plugin using `transport tls` and `tls_*` options
  * configure `forward` output plugin with `time_as_integer` if `secure_forward` plugin is working on Fluentd v0.12.x or earlier
  * configure `secure_forward` input plugin as usual

There are some difference about behavior. It will make difference about performance and resource usage:

* `secure_forward` output plugin uses connection keep-alive, but `forward` connects to servers every flush time
  * establishing TLS connection requires CPU time, so CPU usage might be higher in `forward` plugins (in both of input and output)
  * keep-alive sometimes make troubles (especially on Internet), so `forward` may have less network connectivity troubles
* `secure_forward` output plugin creates threads per connections, but `forward` uses asynchronous I/O
  * this may make some difference about CPU time / memory usage, but not sure

Please notice everything to the Fluentd core developer team via issues if you have any troubles.

### in_forward: Add source_address_key and source_hostname_key options

`forward` input plugin now has two options to inject fields about data source host address and hostname:

    <source>
      @id input_via_network
      @type forward
      port 24224
      source_address_key  address
      source_hostname_key hostname
      # All events should have data like:
      # { "address": "203.0.113.103", "hostname": "web.example.com" }
    </source>

The Fluentd process with `forward` input plugin, which is configured to enable these options, will consume much CPU time to manipulate all events. Take care about it.

### Fluentd internal log event routing

Fluentd's internal log events can be caputured with `<match fluent.**>` sections. Now these events can be routed into the `<label @FLUENT_LOG>` section if it's configured.

    <label @FLUENT_LOG>
      <match fluent.{warn,error,fatal}>
        @id   fluentd_monitoring
        @type elasticsearch
        # ....
      </match>
      # logs in info, debug, trace will be dropped
    </label>

Make your configuration clean & readable with labels!

### Ruby 2.4 support

Fluentd is now tested on Ruby 2.4, and next td-agent will be released with bundled Ruby 2.4.

### Major bug fixes

* command line: fix bug to ignore command line options: `--rpc-endpoint`, `--suppress-config-dump`, etc [#1398](https://github.com/fluent/fluentd/pull/1398)
* supervisor: fix bug of `process_name` option not to work about supervisor [#1380](https://github.com/fluent/fluentd/pull/1380)
* in_forward: Fix a bug not to handle `require_ack_response correctly` [#1389](https://github.com/fluent/fluentd/pull/1389)

Enjoy logging!


TAG: Fluentd Announcement
AUTHOR: moris
