# Fluentd v0.14.19 has been released

Hi users!

We have released v0.14.19. Here are the changes ([full ChangeLog is available here](https://github.com/fluent/fluentd/blob/master/CHANGELOG.md)):
This release is mainly for bug fix and several plugin improvement.

We say again, fluentd v0.14 is still development version. We need your feedback!
If you try v0.14, check your configuration and plugins carefully.

### filter_grep: New `<regexp>`/`<exclude>` section

We introduce `<regexp>`/`<exclude>` section to `filter_grep`.
Here is an example:

```
<filter pattern>
  @type grep
  <regexp>
    key message
    pattern cool
  </regexp>
  <regexp>
    key hostname
    pattern ^web\d+\.example\.com$
  </regexp>
</filter>
```

This is same as:
    
```
<filter pattern>
  @type grep
  regexp1 message cool
  regexp2 hostname ^web\d+\.example\.com$
</filter>
```

New section approach is easy to parse by fluentd core and we have a plan to add nested record access support via new section parameters.

### in_syslog improvement

* Allow more characters in identifier part

Old implementation allows only `[a-zA-Z0-9_\/\.\-]` characters in identifier part. This follows RFC3614 but real world systems use more characters. For the real world, `in_syslog` now accept more characters except ` `, `:` and `[`.

* Add `resolve_hostname` parameter

This parameter is useful for reducing resolve cost when you don't use `source_hostname_key`.

### Major bug fixes

* output: Fix race condition during retry

Users sometimes hit ```"undefined method `next_time' for nil:NilClass"``` error inside flush thread of output plugins. v0.14.19 fixed it.

We also released v0.12.38. This is for adding v0.14.19 features to `in_syslog` and `filter_grep` to reduce the differences between v0.12 and v0.14.


Enjoy logging!


TAG: Fluentd Announcement
AUTHOR: masa
