# Fluentd v1.0.0.rc1/v0.14.25 has been released

Hi users!

We have released v1.0.0.rc1 for preparing stable v1.0 release. ChangeLog is [here](https://github.com/fluent/fluentd/blob/master/CHANGELOG.md).

We have released [v0.14 stable before](https://www.fluentd.org/blog/fluentd-v0.14.22-has-been-released) and
it means new important features and plugin APIs are fixed.
The purpose of v0.14 develops new features for v1.0 so time to release v1.0.

v1.0 announcement is good for fluentd development and users.
We can separate new feature / bug fix release by Semantic versioning.
It makes fluentd version management easier than before.
The important point is no differences between v1.0 and v0.14 :)

We are now fixing reported bugs after v0.14 stable release. We will release v1.0.0 soon :)

### Major bug fixes

* engine: Fix plugin shutdown sequence

  We introduced new plugin lifecycle control but it causes flush timing mismatch between input and output.
  This bug is fixed by combine `before_shutdown` and `shutdown` sequence in one call.

* supervisor: Fix `--user/--group` parameter regression

  We have called change privilege routine twice since v0.14.16 and it causes permission error at startup.
  If you have this error with v0.14.23 or earlier, update version fixed the error.

We have released v0.14.25 together. This is same as v1.0.0.rc1.
If your used plugin depends on only fluentd v0.14, use this version temporarily.

For plugin developers:

v1.0 and v0.14 plugin API are same so v1.0 works with existing plugins.
If the plugin uses `add_runtime_dependency "fluentd", "~> 0.14.0"` like setting in the gemspec,
update it to `add_runtime_dependency "fluentd", [">= 0.14.0", "< 2"]`.

Enjoy logging!


TAG: Fluentd Announcement
AUTHOR: masa
