# Fluentd v0.14.13 has been released

Hi users!

We have released v0.14.13 with several bug fixes and new utilities.

Here are the changes ([full ChangeLog is available here](https://github.com/fluent/fluentd/blob/master/CHANGELOG.md)):

We say again, fluentd v0.14 is still development version. We need your feedback seriously!
If you try to use v0.14, check your configuration and plugins carefully.

### Add 'fluent-plugin-generate' command

`fluent-plugin-generate` helps you to create new plugin for v0.14. It generates skeleton code and rubygems files.
Here is the step for new plugin release:

    # Create plugin files. generate command takes two arguments, plugin type and name
    % fluent-plugin-generate output test
    License: Apache-2.0
    create Gemfile
    create README.md
    create Rakefile
    create fluent-plugin-test.gemspec
    create lib/fluent/plugin/out_test.rb
    create test/helper.rb
    create test/plugin/test_out_test.rb
    Initialized empty Git repository in /Users/repeatedly/tmp/fluent-plugin-test/.git/

    # Set up develop environment
    % gem install bundler # if you don't install bundler yet
    % edit fluent-plugin-test.gemspec # need to update summary, description and homepage to use bundle
    % bundle install --path vendor/bundle
    % bundle exec rake test # check running test

    # edit plugin code and test
    % edit lib/fluent/plugin/out_test.rb
    % edit test/plugin/test_out_test.rb

    # Update README and publish gem
    % edit README.md
    % bundle exec rake release

Currently, our plugin development article for v0.14 is incomplete. We will write new article with v0.14 API soon.

### Skip record with Output#format API

In v0.12, Output plugin can skip invalid / unexpected record by using `Fluent::BufferedOutput#format_stream` API.
But v0.14 API doesn't provide it so hard to migrate v0.12 plugin into v0.14.

To avoid this problem, `Fluent::Plugin::Output#format` API can return `nil` to skip the record.
Here is an example:

    helpers :event_emitter # need this code to use router in Output plugin

    def format(tag, time, record)
      if record['field'] == 'foo'
        record.to_json + "\n"
      else
        router.emit_error_event(tag, time, record, ArgumentError.new("received event is invalid in xxx plugin"))
        nil
      end
    end

With above code, if the value of `field` is `'foo'`, its events are stored into buffer.
On the other hand, other events are routed to error stream and such events are not stored in buffer.

### Major bug fixes

* output: Secondary calculation should consider `retry_max_times`
* parser: Fix missing `parser_regex` require
* in\_tail: Untracked files should be removed from watching list to avoid memory bloat
* record\_transformer: Revert "Use BasicObject for cleanroom" for `enable_ruby` regression.

Enjoy logging!


TAG: Fluentd Announcement
AUTHOR: masa
