# Fluentd v0.14.14 has been released

Hi users!

We have released v0.14.14 with several bug fixes and plugin improvement.

Here are the changes ([full ChangeLog is available here](https://github.com/fluent/fluentd/blob/master/CHANGELOG.md)):

We say again, fluentd v0.14 is still development version. We need your feedback seriously!
If you try to use v0.14, check your configuration and plugins carefully.

### in\_monitor\_agent: Start one HTTP server per worker on sequential port numbers

`in_monitor_agent` now launches HTTP server per worker on multiprocess environment.
The port number is based on `port` parameter and worker id.
For example, if you have following configuration:

    <system>
      workers 4
    <system>
    <source>
      @type monitor_agent
      port 25000
    </source>

`worker 1`'s port is 25000, `worker 2`'s port is 25001 and `worker 4`'s port is 25003.

### in\_http: Support `application/msgpack` header

[fluent-bit](http://fluentbit.io/) has `out_http` and it uses `application/json` or `application/msgpack` header in the request.
fluentd's `in_http` now accepts `application/msgpack` request from fluent-bit :)

### filter\_parser: Add `emit_invalid_record_to_error` parameter

By default, `filter_parser` emits invalid record to `@ERROR` label when parsing failed. This is useful for rescuing invalid records in your data pipeline. But users sometimes want to ignore such records for mixed logs.
You can now ignore unparseable records by setting `emit_invalid_record_to_error false` in the configuration.

    <filter pattern>
      @type parser
      # ignore non-json logs
      emit_invalid_record_to_error false
      <parse>
        @format json
      </parse>
    </filter>

### Major bug fixes

* config: Set encoding forcefully to avoid UndefinedConversionError
* config: Fix `log_level` handling in <system>
* Fix Input and Output deadlock when buffer is full during startup

Enjoy logging!


TAG: Fluentd Announcement
AUTHOR: masa
