# Fluentd v1.1.0 has been released

Hi users!

We have released v1.1.0. ChangeLog is [here](https://github.com/fluent/fluentd/blob/master/CHANGELOG.md).
This release includes several new features.

### config: Support hostname and worker_id short-cut in embed Ruby code

Fluentd configuration supports embedded ruby code in `"#{}"` string.
Many users use this feature to embed runtime value in plugin parameters.
This is conf example:

```
@id "out_foo#{ENV['SERVERENGINE_WORKER_ID']}}" # add worker id to plugin id under multi-process environment
tag "log.#{Socket.gethostname}"                # Use hostname in tag parts
<record>
  metadata "#{ENV['SERVER_ROLE']}-#{ENV['FOO']}"
</record>
```

We noticed setting hostname and worker\_id is popular and current configuration is bit messy because
it depends on fluentd internal, e.g. `SERVERENGINE_WORKER_ID` comes from serverengine used in Fluentd.
So we added `hostname` and `worker_id` short-cut to cover popular cases.
Here is new conf:

```
@id "out_foo#{worker_id}" # add worker id to plugin id under multi-process environment
tag "log.#{hostname}"     # Use hostname in tag parts
```

If other popular case found, we will add new short-cut.

### record\_accessor helper: Support nested field deletion

We have [record_accessor helper](https://docs.fluentd.org/v1.0/articles/api-plugin-helper-record_accessor) for accessing nested field.
Since v1.1.0, this helper supports nested field deletion. This feature is useful in `record_transformer` like plugins.

Syntax is same and you can delete nested field via accessor object in your plugin code.

```
deleter = record_accessor_create("$.key1.key2")
deleter.delete(record) # delete record["key1"]["key2"] field
```

`record_transfomer` filter plugin supports this feature with `remove_keys` parameter.

### fluent-ca-generate: command for certificates generation

This is port from fluent-plugin-secure-forward. Use-case is same with [Using private CA file and key](https://github.com/tagomoris/fluent-plugin-secure-forward#using-private-ca-file-and-key). Change command name to `fluent-ca-generate`.

You can change several values like CN/country/etc via command option. Check `--help` for all options.

### Major bug fixes

* server helper: Fix TCP + TLS degradation

  We changes buffer management in `in_tcp` plugin and it breaks TLS socket handling.
  We changed TLS socket structure and fixed the regression.


Enjoy logging!


TAG: Fluentd Announcement
AUTHOR: masa
