# Fluentd v1.1.3 has been released

Hi users!

We have released v1.1.3. ChangeLog is [here](https://github.com/fluent/fluentd/blob/master/CHANGELOG.md).
This release includes several enhancements and bug fixes.

### output: Support negative array index for tag placeholder

We can use array index for tag placeholder. This is useful for accessing tag parts.

```
<match app.**>
  @type foo
  param value-${tag[1]} # if tag is 'app.foo.bar', ${tag[1]} is 'foo'
</source>
```

Since v1.1.3, you can also use negative array index for tag placeholder. The behaviour is same as ruby's negative array index.

```
<match app.**>
  @type foo
  param value-${tag[-1]} # if tag is 'app.foo.bar', ${tag[-1]} is 'bar'
</source>
```

### buffer: Add queued_chunks_limit_size to control the number of queued chunks

This new `queued_chunks_limit_size` parameter mitigates lots of queued chunks issue with frequent enqueuing.

Sometimes users set smaller `flush_interval`, e.g. `1s`, for log forwarding. This is no problem on healthy environment.
But if the destination is slower or unstable, output's flush fails and retry is started.
In such situation, lots of small queued chunks are generated in the buffer and it consumes lots of fd resources when you use `file` buffer.
To avoid this problem, `queued_chunks_limit_size` is useful. If you set `queued_chunks_limit_size 5`,
staged chunks are not enqueued until the number of waiting enqueued chunks is less than `5`.

Note that this check is for interval based enqueuing for now. It means if your chunk reaches `chunk_limit_size`,
its chunks is enqueued even if the number of waiting enqueued chunks is greater than `queued_chunks_limit_size`.

### Major bug fixes

* output: Delete empty queued_num field after purging chunks. This fixes memory leak when chunk keys include `time`
* out_forward: The node should be disabled when TLS socket for ack returns an error

Thanks for submitting bug reports and patches :)

Enjoy logging!


TAG: Fluentd Announcement
AUTHOR: masa
