# Fluentd v1.7.0 has been released

Hi users!

We have released v1.7.0. ChangeLog is [here](https://github.com/fluent/fluentd/blob/master/CHANGELOG.md).
This release includes new buffer plugin and some improvement.

### Add `file_single` buffer plugin

This new buffer plugin aims to reduce the number of IO operation for high traffic environment.
`buf_file_single` doesn't have `.meta` file and
it embeds the chunk key value to the file path like v0.12's `buf_file`.

```
<match pattern>
  @type forward
  <buffer tag>
    @type file_single
    path /path/to/buffer/test
  </buffer>
  # other parameters...
</match>
```

With this configuration, here is buffer path example with `test.log` event tag.

```
# format is /$path_parameter/fsb.$tag.$chunk_id.buf
/path/to/buffer/test/fsb.test.log.b513b61c9791029c2513b61c9791029c2.buf
```

`buf_file_single` now has one limitation. chunk keys must be tag or one field key.

```
<buffer tag>       # OK
<buffer key>       # OK
<buffer time>      # NG
<buffer key1,key2> # NG
```

We will remove this limitation by adding metadata header in the file.

### Add `http` output plugin

You can now send data to your destination via HTTP/HTTPS.

See [out_http article](https://docs.fluentd.org/output/http) in the document.

### formatter\_csv/parser\_csv: Improve the performance

`formatter_csv` is now 2x faster by avoiding ruby's CSV object per event.

`parser_csv` introduces `parser_type` parameter to change the internal parser.
If set `parser_type fast`, `parser_csv` uses own fast parser.
The drawback of fast parser is not robust unlike ruby's CSV parser. So
if you use fast parser with broken CSV, it may generate broken record.
You need to check your CSV is correct before use fast parser.

### in_tcp: Emit multiple events at a time

Previous `in_tcp` emits events one by one even when accepts multiple events in received data.
`in_tcp` now emits multiple events at a time. This reduces CPU usage because `emit` is heavy task.

### core: Improve several points

- `Fluent::EventTime.now` uses 2x faster implementation
- Remove unnecessary data from buffer/output 
- Avoid unnecessary object allocation

This may reduce CPU usage, a few percent.

### Major bug fixes

- output: Fix data lost on decompression by EOF check bug
- in_tail: Don't call parser's configure twice. This fixes the regression of configuration error.

Enjoy logging!


TAG: Fluentd Announcement
AUTHOR: masa
