# Fluentd v1.8.0 has been released

Hi users!

We have released v1.8.0. ChangeLog is [here](https://github.com/fluent/fluentd/blob/master/CHANGELOG.md).
This release includes new service discovery plugin and lots of enhancements.

### Add service discovery plugin

The service discovery plugin manages the list of destination by extensible way.
Here is `out_forward` example with service discovery plugin:

```
# out_forward now uses service discovery plugin
<match test>
  @type forward
  <service_discovery>
    @type file
    path /path/to/sd_forward.yaml
  </service_discovery>
  # other parameters...
</match>

# content of sd_forward.yaml
- 'host': 127.0.0.1
  'port': 24224
  'weight': 1
  'name': server1
- 'host': 127.0.0.1
  'port': 24225
  'weight': 1
  'name': server2
```

With this configuration, `out_forward` uses `file` service discovery plugin
to read the server list from `sd_forward.yaml` file.

In addition, `file` service discovery monitors `path` file.
If `sd_forward.yaml` file is updated, the server list of `out_forward` is also updated.
No need to restart fluentd for the server list of `out_forward`.

Supported built-in plugins are now [static](https://docs.fluentd.org/service_discovery/static) and [file](https://docs.fluentd.org/service_discovery/file).
We have a plan to support more service discovery plugins, e.g. DNS SRV record.

### Improve config parameter handling

Current configuration parser has several problems:

- Automatic conversion for non string type

This is error prone. For example, if you set `int_param "foo"`, `int_param` becomes `0`.
This case should raise configuration error.

- No way to use default value

This is critical when you use environment variable.
We can't use `nil` or plugin's default value with `param "#{ENV['FOO_PARAM']}"` case.

For former case, we introduce `--strict-config-value` option for strict mode.
With this option, fluentd raises configuration error for invalid parameter.
You can also use `<system>` section instead of `--strict-config-value`.

```
<system>
  strict_config_value true
</system>
```

Fluentd v2 will use strict mode.

For latter case, we introduce helpers for ruby embedded parameter.
You can use default value like below:

```
param "#{ENV['FOO_PARAM'] || use_default}"
```

If `FOO_PARAM` envvar doesn't exist, plugin's default will be used.
This is useful on kubernetes environment.

### formatter\_csv: Support nested fields

You can use record accessor syntax for nested fields in `fields` parameter.

```
<format>
  @type csv
  fields code,message,$.nest.key
</format>
```

### Deprecate top-level match for capturing fluentd logs

Fluentd now provides 2 approaches to capture fluentd logs.

- `<label @FLUENT_LOG>` with `<filter>` and `<match>`
- top level `<match fluent.**>`

Former is v1 style. Latter is for v0.12 compatibility.
Fluentd now shows deprecation message for latter case.

Fluentd v2 will remove top level `<match fluent.**>` feature for fluentd logs.

### Major bug fixes

- Fix error handling during dry-run mode. Show better logs
- server helper: Fix IPv6 dual stack mode issue for tcp socket
- server helper: Ignore `ECONNREFUSED` in TLS accept to avoid fluentd restart

Enjoy logging!


TAG: Fluentd Announcement
AUTHOR: masa
