# Fluentd v1.14.3 has been released

Hi users!

We have released v1.14.3. ChangeLog is [here](https://github.com/fluent/fluentd/blob/master/CHANGELOG.md#v1143).

This release is a maintenance release of v1.14 series.

### in_tail: Fixed a bug that no new logs are read

This release contains a bug fix that no new logs were read when the
following conditions were met.

* `enable_stat_watcher` is enabled. (default: true)
* `enable_watch_timer` is disabled. (default: true)

Thus, this bug was happened when you configure it like this:

```
<source>
  @type tail
  ...
  enable_stat_watcher true
  enable_watch_timer false
  ...
</source>
```

As `enable_stat_watcher` is enabled by default, this bug was occurred when 
`enable_watch_timer false` was explicitly set.

### in_tail: Fixed a bug that the beginning and initial lines are lost

In this release, fixed a bug about `in_tail` that the beginning and initial lines are lost
after startup when `read_from_head false` and path includes wildcard '*'.

This wrong behavior was caused by the following logic:

* New files which are detected on refresh are not read from the beginning and initial lines are lost
* Same as above for rotated files

### Fixed a bug that processing messages were lost 

In this release, fixed a bug that processing messages were lost when
`BufferChunkOverflowError` was thrown even though only a specific
message size exceeds `chunk_limit_size`.

Here is the example that it causes the bug:

```
  message a\n
  message b is longer.....message data exceeds chunk_limit_size\n
  message c\n
```

In above example, if incoming partial data exceeds `chunk_limit_size`,
it raises `BufferChunkOverflowError`, then "message a" and "message c" is also lost.

It is not appropriate because the problem exists only a partial
message data. Now such a message is changed to skip processing furthermore.

Note that even though with v1.14.3, still https://github.com/fluent/fluentd/issues/1849 
is not fixed yet. This is also similar but another issue which cause `BufferChunkOverflowError`.

### Upgrade attention for TD Agent users

If you use Fluentd v1.12 or later, we recommend to use at least v1.12.4.
It is because `in_tail` contains serious bugs in it.

As latest td-agent 4.2.0 bundles Fluentd 1.13.3.
If you want to upgrade Fluentd further more, upgrade it by yourself.

```
$ sudo td-agent-gem install fluentd --version=1.14.3
```

Enjoy logging!

TAG: Fluentd Announcement
AUTHOR: clearcode
