# Fluentd v1.13.3 has been released

Hi users!

We have released v1.13.3. ChangeLog is [here](https://github.com/fluent/fluentd/blob/master/CHANGELOG.md#release-v1133---20210727).

This release is a maintenance release of v1.13 series.
We recommend to upgrade Fluentd because it contains fixes about `in_tail` bugs.

### `in_tail`: Fixed a bug that `DeletePending` state is not cared on Windows

In this release, Windows specific bug was fixed for `in_tail` plugin.

Windows has a concept of `DeletePending`, which means "DeleteFile() was called on that file. NTFS will remove this file once everyone
close the handlers for it".

In the previous versions, it didn't care about it correctly, so there was a case that deleted file could not be handled properly.

### `in_tail`: Fixed a bug that detecting rotation twice on `follow_inode`

In this release, the bug that duplicate events are emitted when `follow_inode` is `true` and rotation is occurred.

This bug was occurred when the following conditions are met:

* Wrong inode is set to `TailWatcher` when `follow_inode` is true
* A key (`TargetInfo`) in `@tails` isn't updated for a same path even if new one has different inode

We recommend to upgrade if you enable `follow_inode`.

### `in_tail`: Fixed some position file related bugs

In this release, some bugs which are related to position file was fixed.

Here is the detail of fixed bugs:

* When both `follow_inodes` and `pos_file_compaction_interval` are specified, file entries that didn't exist on start up will be deleted unexpectedly when compaction is triggered
* `String#bytesize` should be used instead of `String#size` for path length, but it is not used

It causes a bug that file compaction does not work as expected.

### Upgrade attention for TD Agent users

If you use Fluentd v1.12 or later, we recommend to use at least v1.12.4.
It is because `in_tail` contains serious bugs in it.

Note that even latest td-agent 4.1.1 also ships a buggy Fluentd v1.12.3.
You should upgrade bundled Fluentd by yourself.
This issue will be fixed in the future release of td-agent.

```
$ sudo td-agent-gem install fluentd --version=1.13.3
```

Enjoy logging!

TAG: Fluentd Announcement
AUTHOR: clearcode
