# Fluentd v1.13.0 has been released

Hi users!

We have released v1.13.0. ChangeLog is [here](https://github.com/fluent/fluentd/blob/master/CHANGELOG.md#v113).

There are some topics in this release.

* `service_discovery`: extended to support service discovery manager in simpler way
* `in_tail`: handling log throttling per file feature has been supported
* `in_http`: HTTP GET requests has been supported
* The log rotate settings in system configuration has been supported
* `fluent-cat`: the issue resending secondary file in specific format has been fixed

There are many `in_tail` bug fixes, we recommend to upgrade to v1.13.0.

### `service_discovery`: extended to support service discovery manager in simpler way

In the previous versions, if plugin author supports
[service_discovery](https://docs.fluentd.org/plugin-helper-overview/api-plugin-helper-service_discovery),
it must build `configurations` structure explicitly, but it is complicated way.

Since Fluentd v1.13.0, it is enough to call `#service_discovery_configure` from `Plugin#configure`.
It makes implementation costs lower.

### `in_tail`: handling log throttling per file feature has been supported

In the previous versions, there is no way to limit log throttling.

Since Fluentd v1.13.0, the configuration parameter - `read_bytes_limit_per_second` is introduced.

```
<source>
  @type tail
  ...
  read_bytes_limit_per_second 4k
</source>
```

As `read_bytes_limit_per_second` accepts numbers with SI prefix such as `4k`.

### `in_http`: HTTP GET requests has been supported

This functionality is implemented to support health check feature on Azure App.

Azure App uses GET requests to check if the HTTP server is working all right.
In the previous versions of Fluentd, it responds with "400 Bad Requests" to HTTP GET,
so it does not work well for health checking purpose.

Since Fluentd v1.13.0, Fluentd returns a "200 OK".

Thanks Josh Keegan for requesting feature request!

### The log rotate settings in system configuration has been supported

In the previous versions, log rotation options were supported as
`--log-rotate-age` or `--log-rotate-size` via command line options.
    
On Windows, as Fluentd is launched as a windows service,
it is required to configure again via `--reg-winsvc-fluentdopt` or edit
`fluentdopt` registry key for log rotate customization.
    
These approach are not convenient for Windows users, so it may be better
to support more comprehensive solution - customize via configuration
file like this:
    
```
<system>
  <log>
    rotate_age 5
    rotate_size 1048576
  </log>
</system>
```

Now you can customize via `rotate_age` and `rotate_size` in `log` section.

### `fluent-cat`: the issue resending secondary file in specific format has been fixed

The way to resend secondary is explained as [How to resend secondary file](https://docs.fluentd.org/output/secondary_file#how-to-resend-secondary-file),
but it does not work if the record contains `Fluent::EventTime`. It raises `Input must be a map (got Array)` error.

In this release, it supports such a secondary file too.

Note that `fluent-cat` ignore timestamp which is stored in secondary records.
(It is intended behavior for keeping consistency)

### Miscellaneous bug fixes

* Fixed to disable `trace_instruction` when `RubyVM::InstructionSequence` is available. It improves compatibility with `truffleruby` some extent. [#3376](https://github.com/fluent/fluentd/pull/3376)
* `in_tail`: Safely skip files which are used by another process on Windows. It improves exception handling about `ERROR_SHARING_VIOLATION` on Windows. [#3378](https://github.com/fluent/fluentd/pull/3378)

### Community topic

About three months has passed since community forum was moved to [Discuss](https://discuss.fluentd.org/).
[Fluentd category](https://discuss.fluentd.org/c/fluentd-help/5) is used actively nowadays!
Note that fluentd forum on google groups is already deprecated.

Enjoy logging!

TAG: Fluentd Announcement
AUTHOR: clearcode
