# Fluentd v1.14.1 has been released

Hi users!

We have released v1.14.1. ChangeLog is [here](https://github.com/fluent/fluentd/blob/master/CHANGELOG.md#release-v1141---20210929).

This release is a maintenance release of v1.14 series.

We recommend to upgrade Fluentd because it contains fixes about `in_tail` crash bug.

### in_tail: Fixed a crash bug that it raise undefined method of eof? error

In this release, one of `in_tail` plugin bug was fixed.

This crash bug will happen only when `read_bytes_limit_per_second` was specified.
`read_bytes_limit_per_second` parameter was introduced since Fluentd v1.13.0, so 
it affects v1.13.0 or later with `read_bytes_limit_per_second` was specified.

If you don't use `read_bytes_limit_per_second` configuration parameter at all, it has nothing to do with it.

### Fixed a error when using `@include` directive

If you use the following example, it causes an unexpected error.

```
@include "https://raw.githubusercontent.com/fluent/fluentd/master/example/in_forward.conf"
```

The error occurs when http or https scheme URI is used in `@include` directive with Ruby 3.
On Ruby 2.7, it raise an warning message (using deprecated method), not an error.

### out_copy: Fixed to suppress a wrong warning for ignore\_if\_prev\_success

Because of internal inappropriate conditional handling, even though
a user set `ignore_if_prev_success`, it doesn't work as expected.

Instead, it emits the following warning.

```
2021-09-24 14:10:54 +0900 [warn]: #0 ignore_errors are specified in all <store>, but ignore_if_prev_success is not specified. Is this intended?
```

This behavior was fixed.

### Upgrade attention for TD Agent users

If you use Fluentd v1.12 or later, we recommend to use at least v1.12.4.
It is because `in_tail` contains serious bugs in it.

As latest td-agent 4.2.0 bundles Fluentd 1.13.3.
If you want to upgrade Fluentd further more, upgrade it by yourself.

```
$ sudo td-agent-gem install fluentd --version=1.14.1
```

Enjoy logging!

TAG: Fluentd Announcement
AUTHOR: clearcode
