# Fluentd v1.17.1 has been released

Hi users!

We have released v1.17.1 on 2024-08-19. ChangeLog is [here](https://github.com/fluent/fluentd/blob/master/CHANGELOG.md#release-v1171---20240819).

This release is a new release of v1.17 series.
In this release, we added some new options for some plugins and fixed bugs of Parser.

## Enhancement

### `yaml_parser`: `$log_level` notation in YAML was supported

In this release, we added a support for `$log_level` in [YAML config file syntax](https://docs.fluentd.org/configuration/config-file-yaml).

In the previous versions, if you used `log_level` in YAML configuration, it causes a following warning:


```
[warn]: #0 'log_level' is deprecated parameter name. use '@log_level' instead.
```

But `@log_level` is invalid in YAML format. In YAML format, it should be `$log_level` as same as 
similar parameter such as `$tag` and `$type`, but not supported before.

Since Fluentd v1.17.1, `$log_level` has been supported now!

### `out_http`: `compress` option was supported

In this release, we added a new option [compress](https://docs.fluentd.org/output/http#compress) for the [out_http](https://docs.fluentd.org/output/http) plugin.

You can compress HTTP request body by specifying `compress gzip`.
To keep compatibility, the default configuration is set as `compress text` (no compression).

This feature was contributed by @rockliffelewis. Thanks!

### `in_sample`: the default behavior was changed

In this release, we changed the default behavior of [in_sample](https://docs.fluentd.org/input/sample) plugin and added a new option [reuse_record](https://docs.fluentd.org/input/sample#reuse_record) for it.

The default behavior has changed to copy sample data to avoid the impact of destructive changes by subsequent plugins.

In the previous versions, when `in_sample` plugin is used with the subsequent filter parser plugin which uses `remove_key_name_field`, it raises the following error repeatedly.

```
#0 dump an error event: error_class=ArgumentError error="message does not exist"
```

This error occurs when `key_name` and `remove_key_name_field` removes key from record with destructive change in filter parser.
It affects generated sample data after twice or later.
(This error is not limited to filter parser plugin. The similar destructive change will be done with the subsequent plugins, this error is reproducible)

The new default behavior (`reuse_record false`) avoids this problem, but it increases the load when generating large amounts of sample data.
You can use this new parameter to have the same performance as before with `reuse_record`.

## Bug Fixes

### logger: Fix LoadError with console gem v1.25

In this release, we fixed a LoadError with console gem v1.25 or later.

Since console gem v1.25 or later, it's internal change causes a LoadError in Fluentd.
This error breaks existing plugin such as fluent-plugin-prometheus which provides monitoring REST API.

* [500 response when scraping prometheus metrics in kubernetes with istio service mesh](https://github.com/fluent/fluentd/issues/4576)

With supporting console gem v1.25 or later, this issue has solved!

Enjoy logging!

TAG: Fluentd Announcement
AUTHOR: clearcode
