# Fluentd v1.18.0 has been released

Hi users!

We have released v1.18.0 on 2024-11-29. ChangeLog is [here](https://github.com/fluent/fluentd/blob/master/CHANGELOG.md#release-v1180---20241129).

This release is a new release of v1.18 series.
In this release, we added zero-downtime-restart as a key feature, enhanced some features and fixed bugs.

## Enhancement

### Add zero-downtime-restart feature

In this release, we have added the feature to update the Fluentd process with zero downtime for Linux and macOS environments (not supported on Windows).
Fluentd had a feature called by graceful reload that reloads the configuration without restart.
However, the graceful reload feature has a problem that causes a downtime, it cannot receive the data from network using `in_udp`, `in_tcp`, and `in_syslog` plugins during reloading configuration.

The zero-downtime-restart feature has been introduced to solve the problem of the graceful reload.
This feature supports Fluentd upgrades and configuration reloads with zero downtime.

This feature can be used by sending a `SIGUSR2` signal to the supervisor process,
and this changes behavior `SIGUSR2` from graceful reload to zero-downtime-restart feature on Linux and macOS environments.

Please see [#4624](https://github.com/fluent/fluentd/pull/4624) for more information.

### Add with-source-only feature

This feature has been added to support the zero-downtime-restart feature that it launches Fluentd with input plugins only.

This feature has added `--with-source-only` option in `fluentd` command, `with_source_only` option in system configuration and `out_buffer` plugin which can be used for buffering and relabeling events.
These are used internally to support zero-downtime-restart.

Please see [#4661](https://github.com/fluent/fluentd/pull/4661) for more information.

### Config File Syntax: Extend Embedded Ruby Code support for Hashes and Arrays

The [Embedded Ruby Code](https://docs.fluentd.org/configuration/config-file#embedded-ruby-code) has been supported in configuration.
In this release, we have extended the syntax to allow the use of Embedded Ruby Code in Hashes and Arrays.

Example:

```
key1 ["foo","#{1 + 1}"] # Embedded Ruby Code in Array syntax
key2 {"foo":"#{1 + 1}"} # Embedded Ruby Code in Hash syntax
```

Result:

```
key1 ["foo","2"]
key2 {"foo":"2"}
```

Please note that this is not backward compatible, although we assume that this will never affect to actual existing configs.

In case the behavior changes unintentionally, you can disable this feature by surrounding the entire value with single quotes.

Example:

```
key '{"foo":"#{1 + 1}"}'
```

### transport tls: Use `SSL_VERIFY_NONE` by default

We have changed the flags to `SSL_VERIFY_NONE` by default for server the certification verification.

In the previous versions, it had been necessary to set `client_cert_auth false` and `insecure true` to apply SSL_VERIFY_NONE.
This was an inappropriate combination of settings.
In this release, it can make it possible to apply `SSL_VERIFY_NONE` with just `client_cert_auth false`.

### transport tls: Add `ensure_fips` option to ensure FIPS compliant mode

We have added `ensure_fips` option in `transport` section in config to check FIPS mode.
When it configures `ensure_fips true`, it will check FIPS mode is supported in your environment, if not, just aborts.
By default, it has disabled.

Example:

```
<transport tls>
  ensure_fips true
</transport>
```

Please see [the document](https://docs.fluentd.org/configuration/transport-section#tls-setting) for more information.

### plugin\_helper/server: Add `receive_buffer_size` parameter in transport section

In the previous versions, the `receive_buffer_size` option can be set by `in_udp` only.
In this release, we have added the `receive_buffer_size` option into `transport` section too to configure the buffer size on `in_tcp` or `in_syslog` plugins.

Example:

```
<transport udp>
  receive_buffer_size 4194304
</transport>
```

### filter\_parser: Now able to handle multiple parsed results

In the previous versions, there was a restriction that only the first record could be handled when the parsed result was multiple records.
In this release, we have removed this limitation to handle multiple records appropriately.

You can read more about this limitation in the [Remaining problem: filter_parser](https://www.fluentd.org/blog/fluentd-v1.17.0-has-been-released) in Fluentd v1.17.0 release blog.

### in\_http: add `add_tag_prefix` option

We have added `add_tag_prefix` option in `in_http` plugin to add the prefix to the incoming event's tag, similar to `in_forward` plugin.

Example:

```
<source>
  @type http
  add_tag_prefix prod
</source>
```

### System configuration: add path option in log section

We have added `path` option to `log` section of system configuration.

Example:

```
<system>
  <log>
    path /path/to/log_file
  </log>
</system>
```

## Bug Fix

### command: fix NoMethodError of --daemon under Windows

We have fixed a NoMethodError when launches `fluentd` with `--daemon` command line option under Windows platform.

### fluentd command: fix --plugin (-p) option not to overwrite default value

We have fixed `--plugin` command line option that it does not overwrite the default value.

Enjoy logging!

TAG: Fluentd Announcement
AUTHOR: clearcode
