# Fluentd v1.16.7 has been released

Hi users!

We have released v1.16.7 on 2025-01-29.
ChangeLog is [here](https://github.com/fluent/fluentd/blob/v1.16/CHANGELOG.md#release-v1167---20250129).

This release is a maintenance release of v1.16 series.
In this release, some bugs which are related on Windows were fixed with backporting from v1.18.x.

This release will be bundled for upcoming `fluent-package` LTS version v5.0.6!

## Bug Fixes

### Windows: Fix NoMethodError of --daemon option

In this release, we have fixed a bug that it will fail when `--daemon` option is used on Windows.

It was a regression bug since v1.16.0 on Windows, but usually running as a service is recommended way on Windows,
so most of Fluentd users were not affected.

### Windows: Fixed the issues which are related to start/stop Fluentd service

In this release, we have fixed the following bugs which are
related to start/stop the Fluentd service.

* Fixed an issue when stopping the service immediately after startup could leave the processes
* Fixed an issue where stopping service sometimes can not be completed forever

These bug were caused because stop event was not handled correctly in the previous releases.

Typically, this bug will happen if you stop the Fluentd service immediately after startup.
Then it could leave the processes or stopping service sometimes can not be completed forever.

## Misc news

We also enforcing stabilizing CI of Fluentd.
It has nothing to do with Fluentd's functionality directly, but it is very important to provide stable version of Fluentd continuously.

Not only [Windows: Add workaround for unexpected exception #4747](https://github.com/fluent/fluentd/pull/4747),
many CI improvements was merged into master, then backported to v1.16 branch, too.

Enjoy logging!

TAG: Fluentd Announcement
AUTHOR: clearcode
