# Fluentd v1.19.2 has been released

Hi users!

We have released v1.19.2 on 2026-02-13.
ChangeLog is [here](https://github.com/fluent/fluentd/blob/v1.19/CHANGELOG.md#release-v1192---20260213).

This release is a maintenance release of v1.19 series.

This release will be bundled for upcoming `fluent-package` LTS version v6.0.2!

## Bug Fixes

### Fixed duplicate configuration file loading in `config_include_dir`

Since Fluentd v1.19.0, the configuration files under`/etc/fluent/conf.d` were 
changed to load automatically.

This feature was introduced to load builtin plugins and designed to work well with fluent-package.
But, as a side effect, there is a case that duplicated configuration files are 
loaded if user already configured to include from `/etc/fluent/conf.d`.

In that case, it causes startup failures. Thus, user need to disable with `config_include_dir ""` explicitly as a workaround.

In this release, not to raise startup failure, we fixed duplicate configured file loading in `config_include_dir`.

### `in_tail`: fixed error when files without read permission are included in glob patterns

In the previous versions, if you enabled Linux capability feature with Fluentd, 
there is a case that it causes an error.

It was caused when accessing uninitialized instance variable.

### `out_forward`: added timeout to prevent infinite loop under unstable network connection

In unstable network environments with proxy components, 
if connection drops during handshake after TLS establishment, Fluentd gets stuck in infinite loop causing logs to stop being flushed.

In this release, fixed to uses existing [`hard_timeout`](https://docs.fluentd.org/output/forward#hard_timeout) configuration to break the loop, 
then disable problematic nodes, and maintain log flow through healthy nodes.

This fixes improves stability of Fluentd.

### gem: use latest net-http to solve IPv6 addr error

`net-http` gem had a bug in handling IPv6 addresses, and updating the `uri` gem
would trigger strict checking, thus causing errors.

It was affected when you installed via gem command.

### warn when backed-up conf file will be included

There is a case that unintentionally backed-up conf file will be loaded by wild card `@include`.

It will help to detect such a careless mistakes by warning.

For example, if you include configuration file by `@include conf/*.conf`, and there are 
unintentionally backed-up file exists (`conf/dummy.bak.conf`), usually it causes startup failures.

In this release, it detects such a case as a warning.

```
$ fluentd -c wildcard_include.conf --dry-run
2026-02-12 17:41:39 +0900 [info]: init supervisor logger path=nil rotate_age=nil rotate_size=nil
2026-02-12 17:41:39 +0900 [warn]: There is a possibility that '@include conf/*.conf' includes duplicated backed-up config file such as <dummy.bak.conf>
2026-02-12 17:41:39 +0900 [info]: parsing config file is succeeded path="wildcard_include.conf"
2026-02-12 17:41:39 +0900 [info]: configuration include directory is disabled
2026-02-12 17:41:39 +0900 [info]: gem 'fluentd' version '1.19.0'
2026-02-12 17:41:39 +0900 [info]: starting fluentd-1.19.0 as dry run mode ruby="3.4.8"
2026-02-12 17:41:39 +0900 [info]: using configuration file: <ROOT>
  <system>
    config_include_dir ""
  </system>
  <source>
    @type forward
  </source>
  <source>
    @type forward
  </source>
</ROOT>
2026-02-12 17:41:39 +0900 [info]: finished dry run mode
```

Enjoy logging!

### Follow us on X

We have been posting information about Fluentd in Japanese on [@fluentd_jp](https://x.com/fluentd_jp).
We would appreciate it if you followed the X account.


TAG: Fluentd Announcement
AUTHOR: clearcode
